---
title: "Beginning of a New Term"
date: 2019-01-08
excerpt: "The start to a new term"
permalink: /blog/2019/winter-term-2019
---

January never really feels like it starts until classes start. While I am no longer required to take classes, I still go through material at my own pace to continue to learn. This term, I'm trying to go through some machine learning stuff. While there are lots of material out there and even machine learning clubs, I feel as though I don't really have a strong understanding of it. I always hear buzz words and have a rough idea of how it works, but don't have a strong grasp of the theory (or the practical). I see it being used everyday, not just in my the realm of my research, but in other fields as well.

On another note, I was listening to a podcast on my drive back into town last night and the hosts were discussing habits. At one point, they were talking about writing as a result of a listener question. In this case, they were talking about journalling or blogging. One of the pieces of advice they gave is to write everyday no matter what - on the worse days, it might just be one sentence, but on a good day, it could be a few paragraphs to a few pages. It was more just to develop the habit of writing. This portion of the podcast really stuck with me. I think it was part of the reason why I decided I wanted to add a "blogging" section to my personal website. Whether or not anyone actually 4reads this, it gives me both a creative outlet and a way to work on my writing.

The second half of last year, I was trying to write a paper or at least a portion of a paper. This was tough a process. There were days where I did not want to write or wasn't sure what to write and ended up putting it off until the next day. With these blogs, I am hoping to be able to put my thoughts onto paper (or in this case a screen) with the hope that over time there will be improvements in my writing. I tend to ramble and rent at times, especially when I am writing. I hope that this will give me an outlet to ramble, but also develop the necessary skills to be succinct and to the point.

Moving forward, I will try to post these at least once a week, time permitting. I may have a few ideas, and I will write them down as the week progresses. There may be times where there are multiple posts a week. We will see. I am taking this one step at a time.
