---
title: "Web Development"
date: 2019-01-29
excerpt: "Front-end, back-end and lots of code"
permalink: /blog/2019/webdev
---

Over the years, I've dabbled on and off with web development. I have always had some interest in it and I think the connection was mostly with the coding aspect of it. Or at least the potential of the coding aspect. As a young kid with no programming knowledge, I scoured the resources I had available to learn to code. Unfortunately, I did not really enjoy reading anything other than fiction at the time and could not sit still for more than a few minutes to read maybe the first couple of pages. Most of the time, it resulted into thoughts of "What did I just read?" or "What does that even mean?" A lot of the learning I had done was really though some hands on experience.

In the early days, it was a lot of testing things out on the front end through free platforms that aided in building websites. Of course nothing really ever stuck and it waas just a thing to try out. A potentially bad habit was also beginning to form. Some code would be written up in the way that I desired only to be scrapped a short while later because I no longer liked it. This was something I had done with other endeavors (such as my first few attempts with Photoshop) and something that I still do to this day. Now a lot of the coding was in HTML. It was relatively easier to understand. It wasn't until much later that I would start to understand what CSS was.

Fast forward to last year and I was beginning to dabble again. This time was to create a web page for an event that we were organizing. It was one local event part of a bigger global event. If there was one thing I learned from previous experiences, as someone who's career isn't web development, if there is a template available, use it. Luckily, this was one local event part of a global group hosting events worldwide. There was a template available. Even better, it was hosted on GitHub via GitHub Pages (same platform as this site), and all I had to do was figure out what was going on through the code ande make some changes. The best part of this template, was the important information was stored within a variable that was called by the main code so I all had to do was write everything down once. I also ahd to change all the logos to fit, but that was a much simpler task. This experience was also my first time dabbling with CSS and helped me gain some knowledge into what it was and what it did.

As I mentioned in a previous post, I had also decided to create a personal web page near the end of 2018. As the majority of my experience to date has been with sites like Wordpress and GitHub pages, I had to choose a platform to build this site on. Both sites had templates available, however what drew me to choose Git over Wordpress was the familiarity. I was more familiar with Git from all the non-webdev coding I had done and was comfortable with pushing new content onto the page. An additional plus was that the pages were built in Markdown making it even easier to put together pages. The plus was that HTML could still be used (eg. to embed forms like the contact form to this page). One thing I had to keep in mind was that building on GitHub Pages meant the website had to be static. This wasn't a problem (and likely won't be ever) so the choice was easy. There Jekyll themes available and one that I've taken a liking to was the "Minimal" theme. I deleted existing pages and added new ones so that I could build my site the way I wanted. Another bonus was the ability to create posts, such as this one, via Markdown, and push it to the page on a weekly basis. This is probably also a feature available to most website platforms, but with GitHub, it felt as if I had much more control. There were some frustrations getting the website set up (getting the menu bar working, formatting, etc.)

With the page setup, I thought I would be done attempting to create some pages for a while. A potential project then came along which involved developing a web-app (I won't speak too much about this). This webapp required development using tools I have only briefly heard of, but never actually learned or tried to use. This was more development on the backend. While this project has been a bit challenging (coming from no backend experience), it has also been rewarding - learning how to build up some of the functionality that is needed and learning the ins and outs of a new platform.

For those who wish to try something new, whether it is coding or photography or some other hobby, I would say just jump into it. You may fail a few times along the way, but you will learn a lot from the exprience.
